Here's an example of a fairly typical callback chain.
You end up chaining callbacks when
one asynchronous step has to follow another in order to work.
In this example, I have
a fake API that is just returning a function after a certain amount of time.
You don't have to worry about this part,
we are just interested in the callback chain.
We want to end up with a list of the favorite animals of a specific user.
But it's going to take a few steps for us to get there.
All we have right now is the ID of the current session.
So we have to ask the API for the session information.
In the session information,
we can access the user ID.
So we take the user ID we got from the session information,
and ask the API for the user's information.
In the user's information is the list of their favorite animals.
The information we wanted required three separate calls to the API,
and the last two calls to the API,
relied on answers from the previous calls.
But you can see that if I run this code,
I get the correct list of favorite animals for this user.
It's really easy for chains like this to get confusing,
so don't worry if you have trouble following that flow.
But you can see that all of these functions happen in a chain,
and one calling the other until the most nested one prints the information we want.
Sometimes it might even be easier to see it this way.
Fetched session is a function that takes two arguments.
Sometimes it can be easier to look at it when you take
out all of the extra stuff in the second argument,
and look at it just as a normal function call.
So you can see that these really are being called in a chain.
This syntax is also very nested.
In order to avoid the overly nested syntax,
you might find it easier to read by breaking each of
these nested functions into a flatter chain of callback calls.
Let's take a look at this.
The same code refactored into a flatter format.
This code does exactly the same thing as the callback chain above,
but you might find it more friendly to look at.
As a general rule,
people find it easier to read a program when
more code is kept to the left-hand side of the screen,
meaning, less nested and shorter lines of code.
This example achieves that,
but there are still some less than ideal things about it.
First, it is more code.
Breaking functions out like this,
you will write more lines of code than if you nested
anonymous functions inside each other as the previous example showed.
There's no good way to make this code more
concise while also maintaining it's readability.
Another thing that might be less than ideal about this code,
is that you have to read it from the bottom up.
Because each function is calling another,
the last function to run,
has to be the first function declared.
How you feel about that can go either way.
Some people mind it,
others don't, but it's something to be aware of.
Now, you've seen callbacks written two different ways,
and you can decide which one will be cleaner for your implementation.
Most of the time, especially if each step has more functionality,
I would say that the flat style is cleaner.
But in my experience, I think the nested syntax is
still more common to see in programs in the world.
One rule I would absolutely stick to,
though, when using callback chains,
is that you should break functionality into external functions early and often.
Especially, if you're using this nested style,
there's already a lot of logic crammed into a few lines,
and adding a few more,
could make things very messy very easily.
So when you have the option,
break functionality out, make a new function,
and call it from within your callback chain.
In the end, whether you choose the nested style or the flat style,
you have options to write your code more cleanly.
As we know, the readability of our code is one of the most important things about it,
and in the next section,
you'll see how error handling comes into play in both of these formats.